.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GNOME-COMMANDER 1 "Oct 28 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
gnome-commander \- A GNOME file manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnome-commander
[-d STRING] [--help] [--version] [gtk,gnome,bonobo options]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GNOME Commander
is a fast and powerful graphical filemanager for the GNOME desktop environment,
it has a "two-pane" interface in the tradition of Norton and Midnight Commander.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-start-left-dir=STRING
Specify the start directory for the left pane
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-start-right-dir=STRING
Specify the start directory for the right pane
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug=STRING
Specify debug flags to use.
Debug output will be written to STDOUT.
.br
Possible flags:
.br
a: user actions debugging
.br
c: file and directory counting
.br
d: directory ref-counting
.br
f: file ref-counting
.br
g: run_command debugging
.br
i: imageloader
.br
k: directory pool
.br
l: directory listings
.br
m: connection debugging
.br
n: directory monitoring
.br
p: python plugins
.br
s: SMB network browser
.br
t: metadata tags
.br
v: internal viewer
.br
w: widget_lookup
.br
x: xfer
.br
y: brief MIME based imageload
.br
z: detailed MIME based imageload
.br
.TP
.B [gtk,gnome,bonobo options]
Standard gtk, gnome, bonobo options are supported. Use
.B --help
to see possible options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B gnome-commander -d nvl
Starts
.B GNOME Commander
with debugging of directory listings, internal viewer
and directory monitoring facilities.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.gnome2/gnome-commander
User settings.
.TP
.B ~/.gnome-commander/devices
List of user defined devices (see "Devices" tab in the "Options" dialog).
.TP
.B ~/.gnome-commander/fav-apps
List of user defined applications (see "Programs" tab in the "Options" dialog).
.TP
.B ~/.gnome-commander/connections
List of remote connections (see "Connections" menu).
.TP
.B ~/.gnome-commander/ftp-servers
List of FTP servers (deprecated).
.TP
.B ~/.gnome-commander/plugins
User specific plugins.
.TP
.B /usr/lib/gnome-commander/plugins
System-wide plugins.
.SH BUGS
If you find any bugs, please report them (or better yet, fix them
and send a patch). See the
.B GNOME Commander
home page for more information:
.br
http://www.nongnu.org/gcmd/
.SH AUTHOR
.B GNOME Commander
was originally developed by Marcus Bjurman.
.br
Piotr Eljasiak <epiotr@use.pl> is the current project manager.
Magnus Stålnacke <jemamo@telia.com> maintains the
.B GNOME Commander
home page. Assaf Gordon <agordon88@gmail.com> added the internal viewer code
and other features.
.br
Translations and other contributions by numerous people. See the
.B
AUTHORS
file in the source tarball for the detailed list.

The original manual page was written by Michael Vogt <mvo@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system. Current manual page is maintained
as the part of the
.B
GNOME Commander
project.
